hello everyone my name is Thomas Juarez
I've always had a fascination for
computers and technology and I made a
few apps for the iPhone iPod touch and
iPad I'd like to share a couple with you
today my first step was a unique fortune
teller called earth fortune now display
different colors of Earth depending on
what your fortune was my favorite and
most successful app is busting jeepers
which is which is a Justin Bieber
whack-a-mole I created because a lot of
people at school disliked Justin Beiber
a little bit so I decided to make the
app so I went to work programming it and
I released it just before the holidays
in 2010 a lot of people asked me how did
I make these a lot of times it's because
the person who asked the question wants
to make an app also a lot of kids these
days like to play games but now they
want to make them and it's difficult
because not many kids know where to go
to find out how to make a program I mean
for soccer you could go to a soccer team
for violin you could get lessons for a
violin but what if you want to make an
app and their parent the kids parents
might have done some of these things
when they were young but not many
parents have written apps
where do you go to find out how to make
an app well this is how I approached it
this is what I did first of all I've
been programming in multiple other
programming languages to get the basics
down such as Python C Java etc and then
Apple released the iPhone and with it
the iPhone software development kit and
the software development kit is a suite
of tools for creating and programming an
iPhone app this opened up a whole new
world of possibilities for me and after
playing with the software development
kit a little bit I made a couple apps I
made some test apps one of them happened
to be earth fortune I was ready to put
earth fortune on the App Store and so I
persuaded my parents to pay the $99 fee
to be able to put my apps on the App
Store
they agreed and now I have apps on the
App Store I've gotten a lot of interest
and encouragement from my family friends
teachers and even people at the Apple
Store and that's been a huge help to me
I've got a lot of inspiration from Steve
Jobs has started an app Club at school
and a teacher of my school is kindly
sponsoring my app club any student at my
school can come and design learn how to
design an app this is so I can share my
experiences with others there there's
these programs called the iPad pilot
program and some districts have them I'm
fortunate enough to be part of one a big
challenge is how should the iPads be
used and what apps should we put on the
iPads so we're getting feedback from
teachers at the school to see what kind
of apps they'd like when we design the
app and we sell it it will be free to
local districts and other districts that
we sell to all the money from that will
go into the local Edie foundations these
days students know usually know a little
bit more than teachers
with the technology so
sorry so this is a resource to teachers
and educators should recognize this
resource and make good use of it I'd
like to finish up by saying what I like
to do in the future first of all I'd
like to create more apps more games I'm
working with a third-party company to
make an app I like to get into Android
programming and development and I'd like
to continue my app Club and find other
ways for students to share knowledge
with others thank you
[Applause]
[Music]